dash-processing-pipeline-update (#15)
mmiele/DASH: documentation/general/design/sdn-features-packet-transforms.md

## Virtual Port (aka Elastic Network Interface / ENI) and Packet Direction

An SDN appliance in a multi-tenant network appliance (meaning 1 SDN appliance
will have multiple cards; 1 card will have multiple machines or bare-metal
servers), which supports Virtual Ports.   These can map to policy buckets

> corresponding to customer workloads, example: Virtual Machines, Bare Metal

Reviewer: ```suggestion
corresponding to customer workloads, for example: Virtual Machines or Bare Metal servers
```

servers.

The Elastic Network Interface (ENI), is an independent entity that has a

> collection of routing policies. ENI has specified identification criteria, which

Reviewer: ```suggestion
collection of routing policies. Usually there is a 1:1 mapping between the VM NIC (Physical NIC) and the ENI (Virtual NIC).  The ENI has specific match identification criteria, which
```

> are also used to identify **packet direction**. The current version only

Reviewer: ```suggestion
is used to identify **packet direction**. The current version only
```

supports **mac-address** as ENI identification criteria. 
  

> Once a packet arrives on **Inbound** to the target (DPU), it must be forwarded

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once a packet arrives **Inbound** to the target (DPU), it must be forwarded
```

to the correct ENI policy processing pipeline. This ENI selection is done based
on the **inner destination MAC** of the packet, which is matched against the MAC
of the ENI. 

The SDN controller will create these virtual ports / ENIs on an SDN appliance
and associate corresponding SDN policies such as – Route, ACL, NAT etc. to these
virtual ports.  In other words, our software will communicate with the cards,
hold card inventory and SDN placement, call API’s that are exposed through the

> card create policies, setup ENI, routes, ACLs, NAT, and different rules.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
card:  create policies, setup ENI, routes, ACLs, NAT, and different rules.
```

The following applies:

> - Each Virtual Port (ENI) will be created with an ENI identifier like – Mac

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Each Virtual Port (ENI) will be created with an ENI identifier such as – Mac
```

  address, VNI or more.

> - A Virtual Port also has attributes like: *Flow time-out*, *QOS*, *port

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A Virtual Port also has attributes such as : *flow time-out*, *QOS*, *port
```

  properties* related to the port.
- The Virtual Port is the container which holds all policies.

![sdn-virtual-port](images/sdn/sdn-virtual-port.svg)

For more information, see **[Packet direction flow and
transforms](sdn-packet-flow-transforms.md#packet-flow---selecting-packet-direction)**.

## Routing (Routes and Route-Action)

Routing must be based on the **Longest Prefix Match** (LPM) and must support all

> **underlay and overlay** combinations: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**underlay and overlay** combinations described below:
```

- inner IPv4 packet encapped in outer IPv4 packet 
- inner IPv4 packet encapped in outer IPv6 packet 
- inner IPv6 packet encapped in outer IPv4 packet 
- inner IPv6 packet encapped in outer IPv6 packet 

> Routing pipeline must support the routing models shown below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The routing pipeline must support the routing models shown below.
```

   - Packet downcasting (IPv6 -> IPv4 packet transformation) 
1. **Encap** 
   - VXLAN/GRE encap – static rule 
   - VXLAN/GRE encap – based on mapping lookup 
   - VXLAN/GRE encap – calculated based on part of SRC/DEST IP of inner packet 
1. **Up to 3 levels of routing transforms** (example: transpose + encap + encap) 

### Inbound routing 

1. **Decap** 
   - VXLAN/GRE decap – static rule 
   - VXLAN/GRE decap – based on mapping lookup 
   - VXLAN/GRE decap – inner packet SRC/DEST IP calculated based on part of
     outer packet SRC/DEST IP 
1. **Transpositions** 
   - Direct traffic – pass thru with static SNAT/DNAT (IP, IP+Port) 
   - Packet upcasting (IPv4 -> IPv6 packet transformation) 
   - Packet downcasting (IPv6 -> IPv4 packet transformation) 
1. **Up to 3 level of routing transforms** (example: decap + decap + transpose) 

All routing rules must optionally allow for **stamping** the source MAC (to
**enforce Source MAC correctness**), `correct/fix/override source mac`. 

### Route rules processing

#### Outbound (LPM) route rules processing

- Matching is based on destination IP only - using the Longest Prefix Match (LPM)
algorithm.

> - Once the rule is match, the correct set of **transposition, encap** steps must

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Once the rule is matched, the correct set of **transposition, encap** steps must
```

be applied depending on the rule.
- Only one rule will be matched.

#### Inbound (priority) route rules processing

All inbound rules are matched based on the priority order (with lower priority
value rule matched first). Matching is based on multiple fields (or must match
if field is populated). The supported fields are: 

- Most Outer Source IP Prefix 
- Most Outer Destination IP Prefix 
- VXLAN/GRE key 

> Once the rule is match, the correct set of **decap, transposition** steps must

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the rule is matched, the correct set of **decap, transposition** steps must
```

- 20.0.0.0/24

> **VNET Mapping Table** | | V4 underlay| V6 underlay| Mac-Address| Mapping Action

Reviewer: This table shows up as unformatted, or formatted strangely

Author: Fixed format
